









SWTC Flow Loop

General Description
	







 
 
ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Abbreviations
BEP		Best Efficiency Point
CWT		Client Witness Test
DAFC		Data Acquisition Flow Computer
DPV		Differential Pressure across Venturi
DUT		Device Under Test
ESD		Emergency Shut Down
FAT		Factory Acceptance Test
HVAC		Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning
GIO		Gas In Oil
GIW		Gas In Water
GLS		Gas Liquid Separator
OWS		Oil Water Separator
GVF		Gas Volume Fraction
MAWP		Maximum Allowable Working Pressure
MCSF		Minimum Continuous Stable Flow
MoM		Ministry of Manpower (Singapore)
MPFM		Multiphase Flow Meter
MV		Manipulated Variable
MVT		Multivariable Transmitter
NPD		New Product development
NPSH		Net Positive Suction Head
OIW		Oil In Water
OIG		Oil In Gas
P		Pressure
PFD		Process Flow Diagram
P&ID		Piping and Instrumentation Diagram
PID		Proportional-Integral-Derivative (controller)
PLC		Programmable Logic Controller
PSV		Pressure Safety Valve (also named PRV, Pressure Relief Valve)
PV		Process Variable
PVSV		Pressure Vacuum Safety Valve (also named PVRV, Pressure Vacuum Relief Valve)
PVT 		Pressure-Volume-Temperature
Qg		Gas Volume Flow rate 
Ql		Liquid Volume Flow rate
ROC		Rate Of Change
RTD		Resistance Temperature Detector
SCADA		Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SI		International Standard (of Units)
SCDF		Singapore Civil Defence Force
SP		Set Point
SWTC		Singapore Well Testing Center
T		Temperature
VFD		Variable Frequency Drive
WIO		Water In Oil
WLR		Water Liquid Ratio 
Definitions
Gas Volume Fraction (GVF)	The gas volume flow rate, relative to the multiphase volume flow rate, at the pressure and temperature prevailing in that section. The GVF is normally expressed as a fraction or percentage.
Multiphase Flow Meter (MPFM)	A device for measuring the individual oil, water and gas flow rates in a multiphase flow.
Standard or
Reference conditions	A set of standard (or reference) conditions, in terms of pressure and
temperature, at which fluid properties or volume flow rates are expressed,
e.g. 101.325 kPa and 15 °C.
Mass flow rate	The mass of fluid flowing through the cross-section of a conduit in unit time.
Volume flow rate	The volume of fluid flowing through the cross-section of a conduit in unit time at the pressure and temperature prevailing in that section.
Water-in-liquid ratio
(WLR)	The water volume flow rate, relative to the total liquid volume flow rate (oil and water), at the pressure and temperature prevailing in that section.
	

Colour coding
The following colour coding suggested by The handbook of multiphase flow metering [1] is used throughout the document on graphs and diagrams. 

Fluid	Key colors	Color name
Gas		Light green
Wet gas		Dark green
Water		Blue
Water / oil liquid		Purple
Oil		Red
Multiphase flow		Brown



 
INTRODUCTION
The SWTC multiphase flow loop is operational since April 2016. This state-of-the-art flow loop has been designed to serve both the manufacturing (FAT, CWT) and Engineering (NPD) activities of SWTC. Its main purpose is to evaluate the performance of MPFMs by circulating precise mixtures of oil, water and gas at various flow rates and pressures. 

 
Figure 1 General process diagram of the SWTC flow loop showing the oil, water and gas pumps in the middle, the separator section upstream and the test section downstream.
The facility basically comprises a 3-phase separation system, gas compressor (Qty 2), two liquid pumps and a set of accurate reference flow meters on each single-phase line. The pumps and compressor are used to drive the single-phase fluids coming from the separator through the corresponding reference meters. After joining the three lines, the commingled flow passes through the MPFMs under test and finally returns to the separator. Comparing the MPFM flow rates with the reference flow rates allows to assess their performance.
Scope
This document provides a general overview of the SWTC multiphase flow loop in its status.
 
Specifications overview
Pressure & temperature
The pressure and temperature conditions at which the DUT can be tested. Higher pressures are needed to explore wet gas flows and assess MPFMs under more realistic conditions. Temperature controllability is key to run tests with high viscosity fluids.

Static pressure range	3 to 28 barg
Differential pressure range	0 to 10 bar
Operating temperature range 	15 to 60°C
Temperature stability	+/- 3 degC
Gas capacity 
The maximum gas volume flow that can be generated by the compressor and measured by the reference flow meters. This is often the main limitation when testing large MPFM sizes under wet gas conditions.

Gas flow rate	1140 Am3/h 
GVF range 	0%, 100% and 10 to 99.9% 
Liquid capacity
The liquid flow rates that can be circulated (either oil or water) by the liquid pumps, accurately measured by the reference flow meters and finally processed by the separator without any risk of cross-contamination.

Liquid flow rate	0.5 to 200 m3/h
WLR range 	0%, 100% and 1% to 99% 
Testing capabilities
The main purpose of a multiphase flow loop is to reproduce field conditions as extensively as possible. The SWTC flow loop offers the below testing conditions:

Gas types 		N2 (default), other inert gases 
Oil types	EXXSOL D80 (default), viscous and crude oil 
Oil viscosity range	2cP (default) to 300 cP 
Salt types 	NaCl, MgSO4, KCl, CaCl2, KBr, BaSO4
Water salinity range	0 – 250g/kg
Inline salt injection	Yes
Flow regimes	homogeneous (default), intermittent
Testing capacity
In the context of a production test facility, the testing capacity – i.e the amount of DUTs that can be tested on the flow loop per year – is of major importance. Several aspects of the design have been thought to improve the testing efficiency, such as:

Test lines	3” and 6”
Test stations	3 per test line
Concurrent testing	Yes
Parallel testing	Yes
Automated control (Flow, Temperature, Pressure)	Yes
Automated report generation	Yes 
Metrology
The metrological quality of a flow loop is essentially driven by the accuracy of the reference flow meters but also results from its quality assurance capabilities.

Gas reference uncertainty (mass flow)	0.81%
Oil reference uncertainty (mass flow)	0.59%
Water reference uncertainty (mass flow)	0.42%
Flow cross-checks	Yes
Contamination cross checks 	WIO, OIW, GIO, GIW OIG 
Fluids characterization	viscosity
Flow visualization	sight flows
Accreditation	ISO/IEC 17025:2005 



 
FACILITY LAYOUT
General arrangement
The flow loop is located outside the main building of SWTC, near the MPFM workshop entrance. A shelter protects the piping and instruments from external conditions. However, two sides are left open to provide direct access to the test stations and facilitate maintenance of the machinery. Figure 2 shows the 4 main areas of the flow loop facility. There is basically:
	An external STORAGE AREA where the separator and storage tanks are installed. 
	An external OPEN SPACE AREA comprising the Nitrogen supply pallets and HVAC system 
	A sheltered FLOW LOOP AREA where most of the piping and instrumentation is installed. 
	An OPEN YARD of about 600 sqm besides the flow loop shelter. 
 
Figure 2 Flow loop layout showing the 4 main zones of the flow loop facility
On the longer sides, two fire-rated walls offer fire protection towards the offices and the external storage area on the other side.  The storage area is surrounded by a bund wall to contain potential spillage coming from the separator and storage tanks. The refrigerating units and gas supply pallets are placed in an open-space area at the corner. 
The overall pipework has been optimized so that it fits in a compact footprint (23.4m by 21.4m). However, a large portion of the available floor area is dedicated to the test section to offer a wide and safe access to the test stands. This maximizes the testing efficiency and reduces potential hazards related to the movement and rig-up of test skids. Finally, a 3-meter access way is provided all around the facility so that every corner can be easily reached for daily operations or maintenance.
The whole facility has been reviewed and approved by MoM Professional Engineers, both from the process and electrical standpoints.
 
The equipment and piping are organized into 7 separate sections corresponding to the process P&IDs, as shown on Figure 3 :
	Separation system		(PID 1101)
	Compressors section 	(PID 1102)
	Pumps section		(PID 1103)
	Test section			(PID 1104)
	Storage and transfer 	(PID 1105 and 1106)
	Cooling system 		(PID 1107)
 
Figure 3 Top view of the SWTC flow loop
The position of the gas compressor and liquid pumps follows the natural orientation given by the separator, i.e. with the gas stream exiting from the left hand side and the oil and water phases exiting from the right hand side. This helps minimizing the piping length and complexity. 
As for the test section, it is located in a central position below the shelter with the return line going straight to the separator inlet. The control room which is positioned in the top right corner offers a direct view on the test stations and an easy access to the main office block.
The chillers and Nitrogen supply system are located at the bottom left corner in the open space area. This allows to release all the process heat and potential nitrogen exhausts directly in the ambient air.
 
Storage area (PID 1101, 1105 & 1106)
A 15mx7m space is provided for the storage area, with an access door on each side for maintenance or fluid transfer operations. One of the doors faces the open yard so that a tanker truck can easily connect to the transfer manifold for filling or draining of the storage tanks
In order to contain potential leakage of fluids, the storage area is surrounded with a 500mm high bund wall which caters for the maximum spill volume of the separator and storage tanks. On the sides facing the storage tanks, the bund wall is raised by 2.1m to contain liquid projections. Since the storage area is uncovered, it is periodically drained from rain water that may potentially accumulate in the secondary containment after a while. 
Open space area (PID 1107)
This outdoor space is used to store the Nitrogen cylinders and the refrigeration system. Access to this area is done from the open yard via the 3m access way so that a trailer truck can easily manoeuver and load/unload the nitrogen pallets. Pressurization of the flow loop is done locally from the Nitrogen manifold located close to the nitrogen pallets.   
All the pressure safety valves in the flow loop are connected together to a main exhaust pipe which can release the excess pressure to the open air to avoid any risk of Nitrogen accumulation below the shelter.

Flow loop area (PID 1102, 1103 & 1104)
The flow loop area is surrounded with a perimeter scupper drain connected to an underground sump which offers an additional secondary containment of up 4 m3 to contain minor spillage that would occur in the flow loop area.
The flow loop is allocated with 3 MVA power available from a dedicated sub-panel placed in the corner of the flow loop area. Power outlets and isolators have also been provided on each column along the main walls.
Several water points are provided all around the flow loop area as well as compressed air for the actuated valves control but also to connect air-operated pumps or tools.
Electrical room
The electrical room is located besides the control room to host the power and control cabinets of the flow loop equipment. It comprises:
	The compressor and pumps VFDs
	The compressor seal oil system cabinet 
	The main PLC electrical enclosure
	The card access controller
This room guarantees a stable air-conditioned atmosphere whatever the heat dissipated by the VFDs. Access to this room is secured with SLB card access system.

Control & client rooms
The control room is located below the shelter with a direct view on the test stations and an easy access from the main building. 
It hosts the main control and supervisory station but also a station dedicated for the MPFM engineer to monitor or configure the DUT. Finally, a large LCD monitor is used to display process data in real-time.
Another room is provided besides the client room to host the clients coming for flow loop witness tests. It is also equipped with its own LCD monitor to display current flow loop test data or generic information about the ongoing flow loop test. Access to both rooms is secured with the SLB card access system.


Storeroom
A dedicated storeroom is available beside the flow loop shelter to store all the tools, accessories and spare parts required for the facility operations.  
All the flexible hoses used in the flow loop operations are hooked on a wall mounted panel. Spare parts, bolts, nuts and fittings are stored on storage racks. Finally, a work bench is provided for minor repair and maintenance works.

 
PROCESS SPECIFICATIONS
The SWTC flow loop can reproduce many different testing conditions. This section gives a summary of the fluids properties that can be handled by the pumps and reference meters. It also specifies the pressure and temperature conditions under which the DUTs can be tested. Finally, the operating envelope that the flow loop can cover in terms of flow rates, GVFs and WLRs is specified. 
Test fluids
The gas, oil and water phases were carefully selected to test the meters under safe, reproducible and realistic conditions but also with a view to facilitate the three-phase separation in the separator.
Gas phase
For the gas phase, in addition to the safety and environmental aspects, a simple composition and PVT behavior was required. The flow loop is filled with high purity Nitrogen (99.99%) but other pure gases may also be considered in the future if they meet the minimum safety requirements.

Gas purity	99.7% min.

It must be noted that the actual gas purity accounts for the residual traces of air species left in the flow loop throughout the vacuum purging and inerting processes. Refer to the Reference Measurement & Calculations document [4] for more details on the gas composition.
Oil phase
The choice of the oil type is mostly driven by safety and viscosity considerations but also according to its tendency to create emulsions. The flow loop has been designed to handle different types of oil. The oil flash points shall always be above 63°C, to be exempted from SCDF flammable liquids classification. The liquid pumps, heat exchangers and reference flow meters have been sized to handle the following densities and viscosities for the oil phase:

Oil density	775 to 875 kg/m3
Oil viscosity	2 to 300 cSt
Water phase
The separator is filled with fresh water by default. However, since the pipework is entirely manufactured from stainless steel, the facility can utilize brine as water phase. The following salts may possibly be diluted in real-time into the water phase at up to 90% of the corresponding salt saturation to avoid solids precipitations. The flow loop pumps, heat exchanger and reference flow meters have been sized to handle the following fluid properties:

Salt types	NaCl, KCl, CaCl2, KBr, BaSO4
Water density	996 to 1280 kg/m3
Water viscosity	0.65 to 1.15 cP 
Water conductivity	0.1 to 222 mS/cm 
 
Process conditions
The pressure and temperature ranges that can be covered by a multiphase flow loop are significant parameters from the metrology point of view and for the pipework and equipment design.
Pressure
All the flow loop piping, pressure vessels and equipment – except the atmospheric storage tanks – have been designed considering a maximum allowable working pressure (MAWP) of 30barg and 40barg respectively upstream and downstream the pumps and compressors. This allows the following testing conditions to be generated:

Operating pressure (static) 	3 to 28 barg
Maximum differential pressure	10 bar 
Maximum test pressure	38 barg

The maximum operating pressure is limited to 28barg upstream and 38barg downstream in order to operate with a reasonable safety margin below the pressure relieve valves which are set respectively to 30barg and 40barg. The maximum differential pressure is supposed to cover both the pressure lost in the flow loop equipment (pipes, reference flow meters, heat exchangers, separator…) and the pressure lost in the test object(s). In the case of a VxSpectra meter, the latter can be as high as 5bar. 
Temperature
The design temperature of all the flow loop pipework and pressure vessels ranges from 0°C to 100°C. However, the heat exchangers and cooling system have been sized considering a reduced temperature range for a better controllability:

Design temperature	0 to 100°C
Operating temperature	15 to 60°C
Temperature stability	+/- 3 °C

The control system allows to set individually the oil, water and gas temperatures to any set point between 15°C and 60°C. However, most of the time the three phases are just kept at the same temperature to ensure a homogeneous multiphase fluid temperature after mixing.
Codes and standards
The flow loop equipment have been designed, manufactured and tested following the below codes and standards, in accordance with the process conditions above-mentioned.

Item	Code or standard
Pressure vessels	ASME section VIII, division 1. U-stamp and MoM registered
Piping 	ANSI B31.3, MoM certified
Flanges	ASME B16.5
Centrifugal pumps	API 610
Gas compressor	API 676, third edition
Pressure relief valves	API 520
Rupture discs	ASME Section VIII, Division 1. UD stamp
Storage tanks	API 650
Metrology	ISO/IEC 17025:2005
Table 1 List of equipment codes and standards
Multiphase conditions
The SWTC flow loop has been designed to cover a wide range of gas and liquid flow rates so that various sizes of MPFMs (typically ranging from the VxSpectra 19 to the VxSpectra 88) can be tested on the same facility without reconfiguring the pipework or equipment. This implied a careful selection of reference flow meters and control devices as described in the following sections.
Flow rates
The flow loop can deliver and measure precisely the following flow rates:

Gas volume flow range	5 to 1140 Am3/h
Oil volume flow range	0.5 to 160 m3/h
Water volume flow range	0.5 to 180 m3/h

The maximum total liquid rate is capped to 180 m3/h to avoid separation issues. The pumps, compressor and associated control systems are able to generate the following GVF and WLR mixtures:

GVF range 	0%, 100% and 10% to 99.9% 
WLR range 	0%, 100% and 1% to 99% 
Flow rate stability	+/- 2% 

Operating envelope
Operating envelopes in multiphase flow metering are traditionally represented on a Qg – Ql graph, the boundaries being determined either by the min/max measurable flow rates in case of a MPFM (i.e. the 50mbar and 5000mbar differential pressure limits for the VxSpectra meters). In the case of a multiphase flow loop, the min/max achievable flow rates are considered instead, determined from the detection limits of the reference flow meters but also the capabilities of the pumps, compressor and control devices.

Figure 4 shows the VxSpectra 19, 29, 40, 65 and 88 operating envelopes assuming pure Nitrogen for the gas phase and a 50% WLR mixture of EXXSOL D80 and Fresh water for the liquid phase. The VxSpectra envelopes are also represented for operating pressures of 10, 20 and 28 barg. In addition, the flow loop gas and liquid rate limits are plotted based on the specified gas, liquid flow ranges and GVF, WLR limits aforementioned. Finally, the actual operating envelope as measured on the 6 inch test line is represented by the markers. Figure 5 shows the same data but applied to the 3inch test line, which explains why the maximum measured flow rates appear significantly reduced.
 
These operating envelopes show that the SWTC flow loop was sized to fully cover the VxSpectra 19, 29 and 40 envelopes while still covering a reasonable portion of the Vx65 and Vx88 envelope. It should be noted that the flow loop envelope actually depends on the pressure drop caused by the DUT. Refer to the Operational Performance Assessment report [3] for more detailed results.

 

Figure 4 SWTC flow loop theoretical operating envelope versus the VxSpectra 65 and Vx88 envelopes calculated at different operating pressures. The solid line corresponds to the 28bar envelope The actual flow loop envelope is represented by the measurements dots.
 
Figure 5  Same curve as Figure 4 but for the 3inch test line and VxSpectra 19, 29, 40
 
SEPARATOR SECTION
After flowing through the test section, the multiphase mixture must be separated with sufficient efficiency to guarantee pure single phases in the reference lines. For that purpose, a two-stage separator is employed, comprising a vertical gas/liquid separator followed by a horizontal oil/water separator. A vertical arrangement is indeed more suitable for gas-liquid separation whereas a long horizontal vessel is preferable to separate oil and water, away from the turbulence caused by the gas flow. The separator is also fitted with several internals to improve the separation efficiency.

 
Figure 6 Process flow diagram of the separator section
The separator section also includes the vacuum purging and Nitrogen supply systems, which are both connected to the buffer tank outlet. This vessel, which is normally filled with dry gas, is inserted between the separator and the compressor to provide a buffer volume of Nitrogen that will dampen the pressure variations on the compressor suction.  
 
Figure 7 General Arrangement of the separator section (PID 1101)
Main components
The separator section comprises the GLS and OWS vessels, the Buffer tank as well as the Nitrogen supply and vacuum purging systems.
Gas – Liquid separator
The GLS has a total capacity of 4.67m3. It is normally filled with liquid at around 25% of its total capacity to minimize vortices that could entrain gas in the downstream OWS. The GLS is maintained on top of the OWS by a supporting structure, equipped with an access platform. This allows an operator to observe the gas-liquid separation through the sight glasses provided at various locations around the vessel or maintain/repair the GLS instrumentation. 

 
Figure 8 Picture of the GLS
GLS internals
Separation devices are installed in the GLS to help the gas-liquid separation (see Appendix A-2 for detailed pictures):
	Tangential inlet: a 4” internal pipe with a 15° downward angle that brings the incoming flow into close contact with the internal surface of the vessel and impart a rotational movement to the flow. This improves the primary separation of liquid from the gas stream.
	Mist eliminator: mounted on top of the GLS, this mesh pad is meant to collect potential entrained liquid droplets by impingement on the wire surface. The liquid collected on the filaments is then able to drain from the pad under gravity.
	Vortex breaker: inserted at the bottom of the GLS, the Vortex breaker stops the formation of a vortex at higher flow rates, which could eventually entrain gas bubbles into the outlet liquid stream. This device is all the more important that the rotational momentum given by tangential inlet is prone to creating vortices.
GLS instrumentation
The GLS is equipped with the following instrumentation:
	Level gauge (LIAH 1105) for continuous monitoring of the liquid level, essentially used during fill-up of the separator and also in continuous operation to measure the amplitude of potential vortices. For that purpose, a differential pressure level gauge was selected.
	Temperature sensor (TI 1103) to measure the inlet fluid temperature
	Level switch (LSH 1104) for overfill prevention 
In addition, three sight glasses are installed around the GLS to observe the gas-liquid separation GLS from different viewing angles and with the possibility to use an external light source. 
Oil – Water separator
The OWS has a net capacity of 23.4m3. It is normally filled with 50% water, 50% oil. The retention time is around 8 minutes in the worst case, i.e. when the liquid pumps are running at full rate, which guarantees an efficient separation of water and oil over the whole range of liquid flow rates. 

 
Figure 9 Picture of the OWS

OWS internals
Just as the GLS, separation devices are installed in the vessel to help the oil-water separation (see Appendix A-3 for detailed pictures):
	Slotted Tee distributor: This T-shaped distributor connects to the GLS on the top. The large rectangular slots which are facing the ellipsoidal head of the OWS ensure a reduced feed stream velocity and minimized flow turbulence.
	Coalescing mesh pad: a mesh pad made of polyethylene and metal wires is used to coalesce the oil and water droplets. The combination of plastic and metal filaments makes the mesh both oleophilic and hydrophilic, hence helping the droplet coalescence of either phase.
	Coalescing plates: a set of equally spaced and inclined plates is installed along the OWS to help the coalescing process. The droplets rise up and meet the underside of the plates where they subsequently coalesce into larger droplets. The reduced settling distance speeds up the coalescing process while the inclined plate arrangement allows the large droplets of liquid phases to disengage diagonally. 
	Oil outlet diffuser:  At the end of the OWS, an internal slotted distributor is used to collect the oil phase. The large rectangular slots are located at a short distance from the top of the vessel where the oil phase is likely to be the purest. Besides, the openings are facing upwards to minimize turbulences on the oil-water interface.
	Water outlet baffle plate: The water phase is collected at the bottom of the separator, where it is likely to be the purest. A baffle plate ensures that the fluid is pumped laterally to avoid disturbing the oil-water interface. 
All internals – except the coalescing plates – are easily removable to allow for maintenance or future upgrades. In addition to these internals, a purge pipe connects the top of the OWS back to the GLS. This pipe is meant to vent the gas that may potentially be entrained in the OWS and accumulate at the top of the vessel. 
OWS instrumentation
The separator is also equipped with the following instrumentation:
	Oil level (LI 1108): a guided-wave radar to continuously measure the oil level in the OWS and detect potential entrapped gas or assist the operator during the filling and draining operations.
	Oil/water interface level (ILI 1108): the same radar is capable to measure the oil-water interface level. This helps monitoring the separation process.
	Pressure sensor (PISH 1107): a Pressure sensor is mounted on top of the OWS to measure the static pressure of the oil and water phases 
	Temperature sensor (TI 1106): a pressure transmitter gives the average oil/water fluids temperatures in the separator
Finally, a sight glass is installed right in the middle of the OWS for visual control of the oil-water interface during transfer operations. Sampling ports are also provided midway in the OWS from where samples of oil and water can be collected close to the interface level to monitor the separation quality.
Buffer tank
An additional pressure vessel filled with about 3.89 m3 of gas is inserted between the GLS outlet and the compressor inlet. Its first function is to reduce the pressure drop that occurs on the suction side of the compressor when circulating gas throughout the flow loop. Since the flow loop is a closed loop system, compressing gas indeed reduces the moles of Nitrogen on the suction side and hence the suction pressure. Assuming that the Ideal gas law holds and constant temperatures:

P_suction=P_initial-V_discharge/〖V_discharge+V〗_suction  ∆P

The suction volume shall be kept significantly larger than the discharge volume downstream the compressor if one wants to maintain a stable suction pressure. In the current pipework, the suction volume is around 7.85 m3 whereas the discharge volume is estimated around 2.33 m3, including the volume of the interconnecting pipes. This converts to a pressure drop of around 11 % on the suction side when for a given initial pressure of 20 bara and a total differential pressure of 10 bar.  

 
Figure 10 Picture of the Buffer tank
The other function of the buffer tank is to act as a secondary gas-liquid separation stage. This ensures that the compressor is protected from potential liquid carried in the gas stream coming from the GLS (carry-over) that could contaminate the primary cooling liquid. In the same way, the Scrubber tank serves as an isolation volume with regards to the section downstream the compressor.
Gas supply system
In order to be able to adjust the static pressure in the flow loop from 3 to 28 barg depending on the flow loop test requirements, a flexible gas supply system has been implemented. It consists of a gas supply manifold from which Nitrogen (or any other inert gas) can be transferred from high pressure gas tanks into the flow loop piping and vessels. 
Gas cylinders
The flow loop needs to be refilled with Nitrogen occasionally, for instance after being depressurized to conduct a test campaign at a lower static pressure (<28barg). Two Nitrogen pallets of 150 bar / 150 m3 are required to refill entirely the ~10m3 of gas volume in the flow loop at the maximum operating pressure of 28barg. The supply manifold can host an additional 2 pallets as a spare to allow for a continuous N2 supply and reduce downtime between successive test campaigns.
Gas supply manifold
The supply manifold connects the gas cylinders to the flow loop and regulate the discharge pressure at the required operating pressure (from 3 to 28barg). All the selection valves, pressure regulator and pressure gauges are grouped together so that the operator can easily supervise the Nitrogen filling operation locally. It must be noted that the gas supply valve is only opened during filling / release of Nitrogen. The whole flow loop pipework is indeed gas tight and does not need to be compensated for leaks.

 
Figure 11 Picture of the gas supply system, showing the back of the gas supply manifold in the center and two Nitrogen pallets on each side
Gas venting
In case the operating pressure needs to be reduced, a separate venting manifold located close to the vacuum purging system allows the operator to release part or all the gas contained in the flow loop. This manifold connects to the main 6” exhaust pipe opening to the open air. A throttle valve is mounted in series with the isolation valve to control the gas vent flow.
Vacuum purging system
Before being filled with Nitrogen, the flow loop needs to be purged to remove all residual traces of oxygen that could cause corrosion of the compressor casing and contribute to the proliferation of microorganisms.
Vacuum pump (P113)
A vacuum pump is employed to remove all the air initially contained in the flow loop piping and vessels. The vacuum unit comprises a liquid-ring compressor, a gas-liquid separator and a heat exchanger. It can be operated in a closed loop circuit and can generate a vacuum pressure down to 50mbar in less than 45 minutes. The pump is mounted on a standalone skid with all the necessary valves and instrumentation, among which a level gauge, a temperature gauge and a pressure gauge.
Vacuum manifold
The vacuum pump is not only used to purge the flow loop before pressurizing it with Nitrogen. Another outlet terminated with a flexible hose allows to connect the vacuum pump to any other location in the flow loop that would require vacuum purging. For instance, every time a new MPFM is connected to the flow loop, vacuum shall be drawn in the DUT before pressurizing it and opening the test station isolation valves. 
 
Figure 12 Picture of the Vacuum pump (P113) system
Control and operation
The separator section is only involved in a few operations related to the fluids transfer and pressurization of the flow loop. All these operations are manually controlled.
Fluid transfer 
A filling nozzle is provided on top of the gas purge of the OWS to facilitate the filling of the separator. This nozzle is connected to the transfer manifold and fitted with a check valve to avoid any backflow of process fluid into the storage tank in case of wrong manipulation of the transfer manifold.
As for the draining operations, the main water outlet can be used to drain the water content of the OWS into one of the storage tanks. If the flow loop is not pressurized, the water pump can be run at low speed for the same purpose. Regarding the oil phase, a secondary oil outlet is provided with an inner tube ending just below the oil-water interface. This allows draining the oil phase regardless of the water phase. Likewise, the oil pump may possibly be activated to assist the oil purging operation. 
Vacuum purging 
All the valves, instruments and commands are grouped together so that the operator can preform the purging operation locally. All the pressure transmitters can also be monitored on a wireless tablet to verify that the desired vacuum pressure is reached in all the subsections of the flow loop.
Nitrogen filling
Just as the vacuum purging manifold, the Nitrogen supply manifold gathers all the necessary valves and pressure gauges to manage the gas filling operation locally. In addition, all the pressure transmitters can be monitored on a wireless tablet to make sure that the whole pipe work and vessels are pressurized homogeneously. 
Safety measures
The major hazards associated with the separator operation are the risk of over-pressurizing the whole plant and having an uncontrolled liquid leak either in the storage area or in a downstream section. Several layers of protections are implemented to mitigate these risks.

Protection measures
Gas supply PSV
A pressure safety valve (PSV 1102) is mounted on the gas supply line to protect the entire flow loop against overpressures when filling the system with the Nitrogen supply pallets. The excess pressure is discharged to the atmosphere. The set pressure of the relief valve is 30barg and its relief rate (160 Sm3/h) is estimated based on the regulator’s maximum flow rate expected in case of failure.

 
Figure 13 Picture of the gas supply PSV (PSV 1102)
GLS PSV
Another pressure relief valve (PSV 1101) is used to protect the GLS, OWS and buffer tank against overpressures that may result from gas thermal expansion. The over pressure scenario assumes that the flow loop is run with dry gas and that the heat exchanger fails in cooling down the gas stream at the compressors discharge. Subsequently, the gas temperature builds up in the separator resulting in a rise of the gas pressure. The set pressure of the GLS relief valve is 30 barg. The maximum relief flow rate (5700 kg/h) corresponds to the gas expansion rate due to the total heat generated by 2 compressors (to cater for phase 2 extension) running at full speed. 

 
Figure 14 Picture of the GLS PSV (PSV 1101)

OWS Rupture disc
A rupture disc (PSE 1105) is mounted on the OWS to protect the vessel against excessive pressure buildup that may occur due to exposure to fire or other unexpected source of external heat. The relief rate (11,233 kg/h) is based on an estimation of the vapor rate considering the vessel geometry and an approximation of the absorbed heat, as per the API 521 guidelines. Contrary to the GLS PSV which is set to 30barg, the burst pressure of the rupture disc is set to 33barg since it is considered as a supplemental relief device for fire case protection.

 
Figure 15 Picture of the OWS Rupture disc (PSE 1105)
Vacuum pump rupture disc
This rupture disc (PSE 1107) is used as a primary relief device to protect the vacuum pump against excessive pressures that may result from a wrong sequence of operation. The vacuum pump and its gas-liquid separator can indeed only withstand a maximum overpressure of 3bar. Connecting the vacuum pump to a section of the process that was not first depressurized can lead to a major damage of the pump. This rupture disc is installed between the suction of the pump and the main vent pipe. It is mounted on a 4” pipe spool. The set pressure is 3barg and the relief rate (15,779 kg/h) has been calculated from an estimation of the choked flow through the 1” ¼ ball valve that isolates the vacuum pump from the process.
 
Figure 16 Drawing of the vacuum pump rupture disc (PSE 1107)
OWS ESD valves
ESD valves are mounted on each of the liquid outlets of the OWS (XV 1110, XV 1107 and XV 1106) to maintain all the liquid contained in the separator within the secondary containment in case of a dangerous event occurring in the flow loop area. The actuators of the ESD valves are configured in fail-close mode so that any shortage of the air-supply or power-cut of the control system leaves the valves in closed position.

 
Figure 17 Picture of the OWS water outlet ESD valve
GLS Level switch 
The GLS is also fitted with a level switch (LSH 1104) located at about 2 thirds of the GLS total height for overfill protection.
 
GAS SECTION
The gas section essentially comprises a wet-gas pump used as a gas compressor to circulate gas in the flow loop. A scrubber tank is installed downstream the compressor to separate the liquid entrained in the gas stream and reinject it back to the compressor inlet. Finally, a set of reference flow meters is connected downstream the scrubber tank to accurately measure the gas flow rate. Three flow lines (6”, 4” and 2”) are required to cover the whole gas flow and pressure range.


 Figure 18 Process flow diagram of the gas section
The gas is cooled down by means of a plate heat exchanger inserted on the liquid recirculation line. The scrubber is ready to host an additional cooling stage to provide a more accurate control of the gas discharge temperature.
 
Figure 19 General arrangement of the gas section
Main components
Multiphase pump system

  
Figure 20 Picture of the Multiphase pump (C101A and C101B) and their seal oil system (BSOS)
MPC 268-76 pump
Bornemann’s wet gas compressor technology was identified as the most suitable solution to boost gas in the flow loop over such a wide range of gas flow rate and pressure. Two MPC 268-76 pumps are being used in parallel to cover the required operating envelope and also improve serviceability and maintenance. Flowrate from one compressor is as below, whatever the suction pressure:
	Minimum flow rate: 175 Am3/h		(@ 500RPM, inlet conditions)
	Maximum flow rate: 630 Am3/h 	(@ 2000RPM, inlet conditions)
As shown on the pump capacity curve given in Appendix B-1, the gas flow rate (expressed at inlet conditions) slightly decreases with increasing pressure differences. This is due to the multiphase mixture being more likely to flow backwards along the screws when facing higher discharge pressures. This effect is known as the backflow effect. The pump screws are indeed not perfectly tight with the displacement chamber because a minimum clearance is required between the screws and the liner. Even if the gap is normally filled with liquid to seal the screws and generate an enclosed chamber to displace the multiphase flow from suction to discharge, some back flow is still expected.
Seal oil system
Each compressor comes with a double acting mechanical seal system to be compliant with API Plans 53 and 54. The seal oil system consists of a separate skid installed beside the compressor. It is connected to the pumps mechanical seals using hydraulic hoses. The control cabinet is installed in the electrical room together with the compressor VFD. 
  
Figure 21 Mechanical seal piping arrangement for API plan 53 (left) and API plan 54 (right)
During normal operation an open loop (API 54) system is activated. The seal oil is pumped from a storage tank through the seals, the pressure is controlled by a pressure control valve, and the backflow from the seals is cooled before going back into the storage tank. If the multiphase pump stops, the open loop is closed and the seals are then located inside a closed system (API 53) whose pressure is controlled by a second pressure control system where solenoid valves are injecting or releasing some oil to adjust the seal oil pressure. Hydraulic energy is taken from a bladder accumulator pre-filled with Nitrogen. This accumulator allows the seals to remain pressurized during one day typically in case of power break-down.
Variable Frequency Drive
The compressor is driven by a 315kW electrical motor connected to 315kW VFD installed inside the electrical room. This VFD allows a fine control of the gas flow which is almost proportional to the motor speed. Refer to paragraphs 6.3.1 and 6.3.1.2 for a more detailed description of the gas output flow control philosophy.
Gas scrubber
The wet gas compressor must be filled with liquid (either water or oil, as long as the viscosity is reasonably low) to seal the screws. Since part of the liquid is entrained by the output gas stream, especially at higher gas rates, an additional separation stage is required on the compressor discharge. This is handled by the gas Scrubber. 
Scrubber tank
The scrubber serves two purposes: first, it separates the liquid droplets from the gas stream to make sure that a perfectly dry gas is flowing through the downstream reference flow meters; second, it collects the liquid entrained in the gas stream and recycles it back to the suction of the compressor in order to maintain a constant volume of liquid in the compressor casing. Ensuring a constant liquid recirculation also contributes to removing the compression heat thanks to a heat exchanger which is inserted between the scrubber outlet and the compressor inlet. 
 
Figure 22 Picture of the Gas scrubber (D107)
The scrubber capacity (2.38m3) has been sized considering the maximum recirculation rate, i.e. 24 m3/h water for a 1000 Am3/h gas flow. Its diameter (0.95m) is made large enough so that the ascending gas velocity is less than 0.35m/s with a reduced risk of liquid carry-over. The gas scrubber is also fitted with a bed of structured packing and a spare nozzle on the top that can be used to connect a liquid distributor and a secondary liquid cooling loop in the future. This will allow to transform the gas scrubber in a wet-film scrubber in case an additional cooling stage needs to be implemented. A wet-film scrubber uses the packing to provide a large contact area between the gas and liquid phases with a sufficient residence time for the exhaust gas to contact the liquid and eventually cool down.
Scrubber internals
Separation devices are installed in the gas scrubber to help the gas-liquid separation and in provision for the future wet-film scrubber upgrade:
	Half-open pipe: the inlet device used to convey the wet-gas flow coming from the compressor into the scrubber is a 6” half-open pipe facing downwards. This geometry allows a sufficient bulk liquid removal for GVFs ranging from 90% to 100% as typically generated by the wet gas pump.
	Mist eliminator: mounted on top of the scrubber, this mesh pad is meant to collect potential entrained liquid droplets by impingement on the wire surface. The liquid collected on the filaments is then able to drain from the pad under gravity.
	Structured packing: an assembly of structured packing of about 1200mm high is already installed in the scrubber so that it can easily be upgraded to a wet-film scrubber (See 6.1.2.1). In such an arrangement, the scrubbing liquid is evenly introduced above the packing and flows down through the bed. The liquid coats the packing and establishes a thin film. The tight structure of the packing increases the interfacial area for heat and mass transfer which not only cools the gas but also collects condensates as they pass through the packing, contacting the liquid film. 
Scrubber instrumentation
	Level gauge (LIASHL 1215): An external stand pipe is installed besides the scrubber with a bottom and a top connection to the process. This chamber is fitted with a guided wave radar that can monitor accurately the liquid level in the scrubber in real-time and ensure that a minimum level of liquid is always made available for the compressor liquid recirculation.
	Temperature (TI 1233): A temperature transmitter is implemented with a thermowell to continuously monitor the gas temperature in the scrubber
	Level switch (LSH 1213): A level switch is located at about 25% of the scrubber total height to avoid overfilling the scrubber which would cause separation issues.
Liquid recirculation 
Before being reinjected back to the compressor inlet, the recirculation liquid goes through a heat exchanger (E103) connected to the refrigeration system. The heat exchanger has been sized to generate not more than 1.5 bar differential pressure and to absorb up to 328 kW heat. Refer to paragraph 10.1.1 for more detailed information about the heat exchanger.

 
Figure 23 Picture of the liquid recirculation heat exchanger (E103)
The recycled liquid flows back to the compressor inlet through a vortex flow meter and a flow control valve. These two devices are meant to control finely the recycled liquid flow so as to stabilize the liquid level in the scrubber, hence in the multiphase pump. Section 6.3.2 describes how the Liquid level control loop is implemented. Note that even if a heat exchanger is implemented on the liquid recirculation line, it is not meant to control the gas temperature. The primary objective of the liquid recirculation loop is to stabilize the liquid level in the multiphase pump. Fine control of the gas temperature will only be possible after implementing a secondary cooling loop. 
Reference metering
This section describes the single phase reference meters that are implemented on the gas line. After flowing through the gas scrubber, the gas flow rate is measured by a set of high precision flow meters. Two different technologies are used simultaneously to allow for redundancy. While Coriolis flow meters
provide the primary reference measurements, a conditioning Orifice plate flowmeter is mounted on the gas line as a secondary reference measurement. In addition, local pressure and temperature are measured upstream the reference flow meters.

 
Figure 24 Picture of the gas reference metering section, showing from right to left the orifice plate (FI 1223), the carry-over detector (AI 1232), the large Coriolis (FIC 1224), medium Coriolis (FIC1226) and small Coriolis (FIC 1228) flowmeters
Primary reference flow meters
Three Coriolis flow meters of different sizes (FIC 1224, FIC 1226 and FIC 1228) are required to cover the entire gas volume flow range. Two actuated valves allow the control system to automatically select the most accurate flow meter depending on the actual volume flow rate and the flowmeters ranges. The following table summarizes the flowmeters ranges and associated uncertainty.
Tag	Vendor	Model	Range	Accuracy	Connection
FIC 1228	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMFS050	0.9 – 18 m3/h
12.5 – 61 m3/h	0.25%	½ inch
FIC 1226	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMFS150	8 – 136 m3/h
125 – 490 m3/h	0.25%	2 inch
FIC 1224	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMF300	45 – 1200 m3/h
608 – 1200 m3/h	0.35%	4 inch
Table 2 Specified gas volume flow ranges for the 3 Coriolis meters. Flow rates are given at 40bar and 3bar operating pressures
The Coriolis flow meters are installed horizontally, flow tubes upward so that they remain full of liquid and do not entrap liquid droplets. There are no specific requirements in terms of straight pipe run. The respective flow ranges of the flow meters have been determined so that the pressure loss induced by the primary flow meters never exceeds 1 bar and the accuracy is never compromised.
Secondary reference flow meter
A 6” orifice plate flowmeter is mounted downstream the gas scrubber to provide a secondary mass flow measurement for quality assurance purposes. This additional flow meter has been sized to match the largest Coriolis flowmeter’s measuring range. The orifice plate is installed vertically on a downward flow section and its position complies with the minimum straight run required by the manufacturer (2D upstream and downstream). The pressure loss induced by the orifice plate never exceeds 0.5 bar.



Tag	Vendor	Device	Range	Accuracy	Connection
FI 1223	Emerson
(Rosemount)	3051SFC	100 – 1360 m3/h
150 – 3540 m3/h	1%	6 inch
Table 3 Specified gas volume flow range for the 6” Orifice plate. Flow rates are given at 40bar and 3bar operating pressures
Carry-over detector
An in-line optical liquid detection sensor system is inserted between the secondary and primary reference meters. This device is able to detect the presence of liquid droplets at very high gas-cuts (GVF > 99%). The optical system consists of a light source and spectrometers operating in the NIR (near infra read) and/or the UV (Ultraviolet) range. The analyzer is installed horizontally. There are no specific requirements in terms of straight pipe run. The level of the measured optical-density baseline shift due to added attenuation caused by scattering of liquid droplets in the gas stream is indicative of the level of liquid entrainment. Experimental tests can be used to correlate optical (scattering) attenuation measurement to the liquid volume concentration in gas.

Tag	Vendor	Device	Range	Accuracy	Connection
AI 1232	Optek	RL97/23/EG	TBD	TBD	4 inch
Table 4 Carry-over detector specifications (to be consolidated)
Control and operation
A specific PLC (PLC2) is used to monitor and control the gas boosting section. The pump start-up procedure follows a precise sequence of valves configuration, turning-on the seal oil system and turning-off the motor heaters before the motor VFD can finally be switched on. Specific actions are also required when the pump is in standby, running, stopping or shut-down mode. All these operational procedures are implemented in the state machine represented in Figure 25. The detailed operational sequences are available in the SWTC Flow Loop - Operational Sequences specifications [5].

 
Figure 25 Operational sequences of the gas compressor
In terms of automated control, the compressor is equipped with a VFD (VAR 1207), a bypass control valve (FCV 1103) and a liquid recirculation valve (FCV 1201). This section describes how these control devices are operated to achieve the desired flow rate (5 – 1000 m3/h), differential pressure (0 – 10bar) and maintain a stable liquid level whatever the process conditions. 
Gas flow control 
Two parallel PID controllers are used to regulate the gas output flow.
 
Figure 26 Block diagram of the Gas output flow control loop 
(MV1: VAR 1207 speed, MV2: FCV 1103 opening, PV: Qv_gas, SP: from 5 to 1140 Am3/h)
Direct PID (PID1)
The pump capacity is proportional to the motor speed for a given pressure difference. As a result, the gas flow rate is first adjusted by playing on the motor speed via the VFD. However, the speed turndown is not large enough to cover the desired flow range (from 0.5 to 1140 Am3/h). Indeed, at the minimum allowable motor speed (500RPM), the minimum flow rate achievable is approximately 175 m3/h. As a result, a bypass control valve (FCV 1103) is installed between the scrubber outlet and the buffer inlet to recycle part of the output gas stream and hence allow to generate the smaller flow rates (roughly from 0.5 to 175 Am3/h).
Indirect PID (PID2)
This indirect PID controller operates on the compressor bypass control valve (FCV 1103) to generate the smaller flow rates. It is executed in parallel with the direct PID controller (6.3.1.1). Once the pump speed saturates at 500rpm, the indirect PID controller naturally takes over and recycles part of the gas flow to generate the smaller flow rates. To avoid disturbances between the two loops, their time constants are set to substantially different values.
Liquid level control 
The liquid volume in the compressor is a balance between the liquid flow entrained in the gas stream (outgoing flow) and the liquid flow fed from the scrubber tank via the recirculation line (incoming flow). The outgoing flow mostly depends on the pump speed whereas the incoming flow is essentially determined by the differential pressure across the compressor. Stabilizing the liquid level in the compressor is equivalent to stabilizing the liquid level in the scrubber, given that the recirculation liquid remains in a closed loop system isolated from the rest of the flow loop by the upstream buffer tank and the downstream scrubber tank.
 
Figure 27 Block diagram of the Liquid level control loop (cascade PID)
PID1: Level control, SP1: Level set point (from 300 to 700mm), PV1: LIASHL 1215 level ;
PID2: Flow control, SP2: flow set point, MV2: FCV 1203 opening, PV2: FIC1201 flow rate
The liquid level in the scrubber is controlled by two PID controllers arranged in a cascade configuration. Instead of dictating how widely the valve should be opened, the first controller tells the second controller how much flow is required to stabilize the liquid level. The second controller then manipulates the valve opening until the recirculation liquid is flowing at the requested rate. Such a cascade arrangement provides a much faster compensation when the recirculation flow is disturbed, for instance due to differential pressure variations. 
Flow line selection
The reference flow line (6”, 4” or 2”) can be automatically selected by comparing the measured flow rate with the selected Coriolis flow meter range. If the actual flow rate deviates from the specified range, the controller opens or closes the selection valves XV 1205 and XV 1206 to switch to the most suitable Coriolis flowmeter. The controller subsequently activates the corresponding flow meter outputs (FIC 1224, FIC 2336 or FIC 1228) in the gas output flow control loops. 

 
Figure 28 Hysteresis diagram for the gas flow line selection
To avoid intermittent switches near the boundary values, a dead band (hysteresis) is implemented, making use of the natural overlap of the flow meters ranges. The user can also tune the dead band thresholds (%up and %down coefficients) which are expressed as percent values of the corresponding flow range limits.
Safety measures
The major hazards associated with the gas compressor operation are the risks of generating excessive discharge pressures and temperatures. Several layers of protection devices are implemented to ensure a safe operation of the gas compressor.
Prevention measures
Anti-surge valve
The bypass flow control valve (FCV 1103) is also used as an anti-surge valve. Whenever the discharge pressure gets too close to the maximum operating pressure (H alarm) or when the pressure difference gets too close to the maximum differential pressure (H alarm), the controller automatically opens the bypass control valve to release the excess pressure back to the compressor suction. 
Compressor shut-down
If the discharge pressure or differential pressure keeps increasing in spite of the bypass valve being opened (HH alarms), the pump is automatically shut down. Another cause of automatic shutdown is the detection of an excessive compression ratio which would damage the pump screws. Finally, excessive gas temperatures or motor winding and bearings temperatures can also lead to a pump shutdown. 
Protection measures
Low level switch 
The wet gas pump shall always be filled up with a minimum volume of liquid to ensure a proper sealing of the screws and sufficient removal of the compression heat. A level switch (LSL 1206) is installed at about half the height of the pump casing. The controller automatically stops the pump when the liquid level goes below the level switch position.
Discharge PSV
A pressure safety valve (PSV 1205) is installed on the compressors discharge piping to protect the scrubber and downstream piping from overpressures in case of a blocked discharge scenario. The excess pressure is discharged to the atmosphere through the main vent pipe. The relief pressure is set to the downstream equipment MAWP, i.e. 40barg. The valve is able to release the maximum gas (1300 Am3/h) and liquid (25m3/h) flow rates achievable with two MPC 268 pumps running in parallel to cater for the phase 2 upgrades.
 
Figure 29 Picture of the compressor discharge PSV (PSV 1205)
Rupture disc 
A rupture disc (PSE 1201) is directly mounted on the pump casing between the suction and discharge sides to protect the screws against excessive differential pressures. The burst pressure is set to 16bar.
 
LIQUID SECTION
This section of the P&IDs encompasses the liquid pumps and associated control and measurement devices. Two centrifugal pumps are used to circulate water and oil through the reference flow meters. Two flow lines, a 4” and a 2” line are required to cover the liquid flow range on each line. The oil and water lines are then merged using a standard Y-branch pipe.
 
Figure 30 Process flow diagram of the liquid section
The oil and water phases are cooled down using plate heat exchangers installed on the pumps discharge side. Additional 2” export lines are connected to the pumps discharge piping to allow drainage of the separator water or oil phases into the storage tanks. 
 
Figure 31 General arrangement of the liquid section
Main components
Circulation pumps
Single stage API 610 heavy duty centrifugal pumps have been selected for the oil and water circulation. Contrary to the gas compressor which functions as a positive displacement pump, hence delivering an almost constant volume of fluid at a given speed and regardless the pressure at the outlet, centrifugal pumps are dynamic pumps in which the output flow is dependent on the discharge pressure.   
 
Figure 32 Picture of the water (right) and oil (left) liquid pumps, respectively P103 and P105
Centrifugal pumps
The oil pump has been sized considering both the light and viscous oil conditions and based on a duty head of 10bar at 150m3/h. The table below summarizes the pump performance in both cases. The detailed pump curves are given in Appendix C-1.
	Light oil	Viscous oil
Nominal speed	2980 rpm	2980 rpm 
Head @ 150 m3/h	10 bar	10 bar
Shut-off head 	10.59 bar	11.56 bar
MCSF *	74.2 m3/h	74.2 m3/h
Flow at BEP	227.5 m3/h	206.9 m3/h
NPSH required **	3.9 m	4.2 m
Table 5 Summary datasheet of the oil pump (P105)
The water pump has been sized considering the fresh water and saturated brine conditions and based on a duty head of 10bar at 150m3/h. The table below summarizes the pump performance in both cases. The detailed pump curves are given in Appendix 0.
	Fresh water	Saturated brine
Nominal speed	2970 rpm	2720 rpm ***
Head @ 150 m3/h	10 bar	10 bar
Shut-off head 	12.33 bar	13.23 bar
MCSF *	62.5 m3/h	57.2 m3/h
Flow at BEP	141.2 m3/h	129.1 m3/h
NPSH required **	3.4 m	3.4 m
Table 6 Summary datasheet of the water pump (P103)
* A Minimum Continuous Stable Flow (MCSF) is required for the pumps to operate within acceptable noise and vibration limits, which will eventually improve their long-term reliability. This MCSF is ensured by the addition of a flow bypass line to recirculate part of the flow equal to the difference between the MCSF and the lowest flow rate at which the user will operate the pump (refer to paragraph 7.4.3 for more detailed information about the MCSF control strategy).
** Both pumps require around 3-4m of minimum suction pressure (NPSH) to operate without any risk of cavitation which could potentially damage the impellers. Thanks to the minimum operating pressure being at least 3bar, the available NPSH is always kept significantly larger than the NPSH required by the pumps manufacturer (around 30m for oil and 28m for water), hence ensuring a safe operation of the pumps.
*** The water pump nominal speed is reduced to 2720 rpm in case of the saturated brine. The purpose is to maintain a constant pump head of 10bar at the nominal flow and avoid any over-pressure hazards when operating with larger fluid densities. Refer to paragraph 7.5.1 for more details about the pump speed limit strategy.
Mechanical seals
The pumps are equipped with single acting mechanical seals compatible with API plans 11 and 61. The purpose of a mechanical seal is to form a barrier between the process fluid inside the pump and the atmosphere. The mechanical seal combines a rotating part with a stationary part ensuring a minimum gap between the seal faces to minimize friction losses and overheating. 
        
Figure 33 Mechanical seal piping arrangement for API plan 11 (left) and API plan 62 (right)
In the API plan 11, the heat generated at the seal chamber is removed by maintaining a continuous product recirculation from the pump discharge to the seal through a flow control orifice. API plan 61 consists in the provision of drain and quench connections on the mechanical seal to flush away any undesirable material that would slowly buildup on the atmospheric side of the seal. This plan is not implemented as the oil and water used on the flow loop are not likely to coke or crystallize.
Variable Frequency Drives
The oil pump is driven by a 110kW electrical motor connected to a 110kW VFD whereas the water pump is driven by a 75kW electrical motor and a 75kW VFD. Even if both pumps are sized for the same duty point (150 m3/h at a 10-bar head), the oil pump motor and VFD are oversized to account for the negative impact of the oil viscosity on the pump performance, which turns to be about 33% on the pump efficiency for a 300 cSt viscosity.
Cooling loops
Each pump is connected to a heat exchanger on the discharge side. Indeed, because the pumps circulate liquid in a closed loop, the heat generated by the pumps needs to be dissipated in order to keep the fluids at a constant temperature over time. Refer to paragraph 10.1.1 for more detailed information about the heat exchangers and cooling system.

 
Figure 34 Picture of the oil (right) and water (left) heat exchangers, respectively E102 and E101
Export lines
Two export lines are connected to the pumps outlets on one end and to the transfer manifold on the other end. This allows the operator to run the liquid pumps to purge the oil and water contained in the OWS, in case the flow loop is depressurized and cannot drain by itself. 
Oil reference metering
This section describes the single-phase reference meters used on the oil line. After flowing through
the oil pump, the oil flow rate is measured by a set of high precision flow meters. Two different
technologies are used simultaneously to allow for redundancy: Coriolis flowmeters are used as primary
references whereas a Vortex shedding flowmeter is mounted in series to provide a secondary
reference measurement on the oil line. In addition, local pressure and temperature are measured upstream the reference flow meters.

 
Figure 35 Picture of the oil (front) and water (back) reference metering lines, showing from left to right the large Coriolis, the secondary (Vortex and Magmeter) flowmeters and the small Coriolis flowmeters.
Primary reference
Two Coriolis flow meters of different sizes (FIC 1318 and FIC 1320) are required to cover the whole liquid flow range. An actuated valve (XV 1313) allows the control system to automatically select the appropriate flow meter by comparing the actual volume flow rate with the flow meters measuring ranges.  The following table summarizes the flowmeters ranges and associated uncertainty.
Tag	Vendor	Model	Range	Accuracy	Connection
FIC 1320	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMFS100	0.6 – 14 m3/h
0.5 – 6.2 m3/h	0.1%	2 inch
FIC 1318	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMF300	8.5 – 174 m3/h
7.8 – 120 m3/h	0.1%	4 inch
Table 7 Specified oil volume flow rate ranges and uncertainty for the 2 Coriolis meters. Flow rates are given for the light and viscous oils
The flow meters are installed horizontally, flow tubes upward so that they remain full of liquid and do not entrap gas bubbles. There are no specific requirements in terms of straight pipe run. The respective flow ranges of the flow meters have been determined so that the pressure loss induced by the primary flow meters never exceeds 1 bar and the accuracy is never compromised.
Secondary reference:
A Vortex shedding flow meter (FI 1317) is inserted downstream the larger Coriolis flow meter to provide a redundant flow measurement. This additional flowmeter has been sized so that its measuring range matches with the larger Coriolis flow meter. The following table summarizes the secondary flowmeter measuring range and associated uncertainty. Note that the vortex flowmeter is not suitable for higher viscosity oils.

Tag	Vendor	Model	Range	Accuracy	Connection
FIC 1320	Emerson
(Rosemount)	8800D	12 – 212 m3/h
-	0.65%	4 inch
Table 8 Specified oil volume flow range and uncertainty for the Vortex flowmeter. Flow rates are given for the light oil only.
The Vortex flow meter is installed on a horizontal portion and its position complies with the minimum straight pipe length required by the manufacturer (10D upstream and 5D downstream).
Water reference metering
The water line arrangement is similar to the oil line in that two different technologies are used simultaneously to allow for redundancy: two Coriolis flowmeters are used as primary references whereas a Magnetic flowmeter is mounted in series to provide a secondary reference measurement. In addition, local pressure and temperature are measured upstream the reference flowmeters.
Primary reference
Two Coriolis flow meters of different sizes (FIC 1313 and FIC 1311) are required to cover the whole water flow range. An actuated valve (XV 1311) allows the control system to automatically switch between the flow meters depending on desired flow rate and their measuring range.  The following table summarizes the flowmeters ranges and associated uncertainty.
Tag	Vendor	Model	Range	Accuracy	Connection
FIC 1313	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMFS100	0.5 – 13 m3/h
0.4 – 11.5 m3/h	0.1%	2 inch
FIC 1311	Emerson
(Micromotion)	CMF300	7 – 162 m3/h
5 – 141 m3/h	0.1%	4 inch
Table 9 Specified water volume flow ranges and uncertainty for the 2 Coriolis meters. Flow rates are given for the fresh and saturated salt water
Just as the oil line, the Coriolis flow meters are installed horizontally, flow tubes upward so that they remain full of liquid and do not entrap liquid droplets. There are no specific requirements in terms of straight pipe run. The respective flow ranges of the flow meters have been determined so that the pressure loss induced by the primary flow meters never exceeds 1 bar and the accuracy is never compromised.
Secondary reference
An electromagnetic flow meter is inserted in series with the larger Coriolis flow meter to provide a redundant flow measurement. This additional flowmeter has been sized to match with the larger Coriolis flow meter’s measuring range. The following table summarizes the secondary flowmeter measuring range and associated uncertainty.

Tag	Vendor	Model	Range	Accuracy	Connection
FI 1310	Emerson
(Rosemount)	8232	17 – 206 m3/h
17 – 206 m3/h	0.25%	3 inch
Table 10 Specified water volume flow range and uncertainty for the Magnetic flowmeter. Flow rates are given for the fresh and saturated salt water
The flow meter is installed on a horizontal portion and its position complies with the minimum straight pile length required by the manufacturer (5D upstream and 2D downstream).
Control and operation
A specific PLC (PLC3) is used to monitor and control the liquid pumps. The pumps start-up procedure consists of a precise sequence of valves configuration and switching-off the motor heaters before the VFDs can finally be turned on. Specific actions are also required when the pumps are in standby, running, stopping or shut-down mode. All these operational procedures are implemented in the state machine represented in Figure 25. The detailed operational sequences are available in the SWTC Flow Loop - Operational Sequences specifications [5].

  
Figure 36 Operational sequences of the water (left) and oil (right) pumps
In terms of automated control, each pump is equipped with a VFD (VAR 1328 / VAR 1327), a bypass control valve (FCV 1303/ FCV 1305), a throttle control valve (FCV 1302 / FCV 1304) and a temperature control valve (TCV1301 / TCV 1308). This section describes how these 4 control devices are operated to achieve the desired flow rate (0.5 – 150 m3/h), differential pressure (0 – 10bar) and temperature stability (+/- 3°C), whatever the process conditions. 
Discharge pressure control
Contrary to the gas compressor which delivers an almost stable gas flow rate for a given speed whatever the back pressure encountered in the mixing section, the centrifugal pumps can only flow liquid if their discharge pressure exceeds the pressure at the mixing point. The motor speed is hence automatically adjusted to maintain the pump discharge pressure above the pressure measured on the gas line. In practice, a 1 bar positive difference is usually sufficient to mix liquid with the incoming gas stream.

 
Figure 37 Block diagram of the Discharge pressure control loop for the water pump 
(MV: VAR 1327 speed, PV: P1-P2 pressure difference, SP: from 0 to 5bar)
The process variable is calculated as the pressure difference between the incoming gas line and the pump discharge line.  Regulating the pump speed offers significant energy savings but it also facilitates the output flow control loop (7.4.2) as it implicitly maintains a constant pressure difference over the throttle control valves.
Output flow control
A common method of controlling the flow rate of a centrifugal pump is to throttle a control valve located on the discharge side of the pump. Closing the control valve reduces the flow rate by increasing the system pressure drop, and therefore forcing the pump to operate further back on its H-Q curve (see Appendix C). Flow control valves (FCV 1304/1302) are installed downstream the oil and water pumps for this purpose. They have been sized so that the valves always operate within their flow coefficient range (Cv) for flow rates ranging from 0.5 m3/h up to 150m3/h.

 
Figure 38 Block diagram of the Output flow control loop for the water pump
(MV: FCV 1302 / 1304 opening, PV: Qv_water / Qv_oil, SP: from 0.5 to 150 m3/h)
In this control loop, the opening of the discharge control valve is adjusted to meet the desired output flow rate. 
Total flow control
The bypass control valves (FCV 1305 / 1303) are used to guarantee a minimum recycling flow to avoid operating the centrifugal pumps below their MCSF. According to the pump manufacturer, the MCSF shall always be about 50% of the nominal flow at the nominal speed, i.e. around 75 m3/h. 

 
Figure 39 Block diagram of the Total flow control loop for the water pump (indirect PID)
(MV: FCV 1303 / 1305 opening, PV: FS 1301 / 1322 %flow, SP: %flow, SPV: VAR 1327 / 1328 speed)
The total flow control loop operates on the bypass control valve opening to control the total flow rate, which is measured by two flow switches (FS 1301 / 1322) mounted on the pumps suction lines. The process variables are the flow switches outputs, given in percentage of the maximum liquid flow (150 m3/h). The user can either enter a specific set point in percent flow (SP) or enable the automatic calculation of the set point based on the actual pump speed (SPV). The MCSF is indeed reduced in proportion to the pump speed.
Temperature control
The heat exchangers are mounted right on the pumps outlet, upstream the bypass branch so that they operate on the total liquid volume circulated by the pumps, whatever the output flow rate. This prevents the pumps from overheating even when delivering small output flow rates. The liquid temperature is adjusted by means of a temperature control valve (TCV 1308 / 1301) connecting the chilled water supply to the heat exchanger outlet.
 
Figure 40 Block diagram of the Temperature control loop for the oil and water pumps
(MV: TCV 1308 / 1301, PV: TIC 1307 / 1314, SP: from 15 to 60 degC)
Flow line selection
This sub-process is intended to automatically select the most accurate flow meter according to the measured liquid flow rate. As seen in paragraphs 7.2.1 and 7.3.1, the oil and water reference lines are fitted with 2 Coriolis flowmeters with overlapping flow ranges. The 2 flow meters are installed in series and an actuated valve (XV1313 / 1311) can be closed to divert the flow in the smaller Coriolis flow meter. 

 
Figure 41 Hysteresis diagram for the liquid flow lines selection.
To avoid intermittent switches near the boundary values, a dead band (hysteresis) logic is implemented, taking advantage of the comfortable overlap of the flow meters measuring ranges. The user can also tune the dead band thresholds (%up and %down coefficients) which are expressed as percent values of the corresponding flow range limits.
Safety measures
The major hazards associated with the liquid pumps operation are the risks of zero-flow and excessive discharge pressures when running on higher densities fluids. This section describes the safeguards implemented in the control system to prevent and mitigate these risks.
Prevention measures
Pump speed limitation
Contrary to a positive displacement pump, a centrifugal pump is less likely to cause excessive discharge pressures in case of a blocked discharge. Indeed, by construction, the discharge pressure cannot exceed the shut-off head, which is determined from the pump curve at zero flow. However, the nominal speeds and shut-off heads of the oil and water pumps have been sized considering the light oil and fresh water case.  When running with higher density fluids, such as brine for instance, the resulting shut-off head is increased in proportion to the fluid density, which may lead to excessive discharge pressures that can damage the pump and the downstream piping. As a result, a continuously running process is implemented in the PLC to limit the maximum speed of the liquid pumps based on the actual fluid density measured on the larger Coriolis flowmeters. 

 
Figure 42 Block diagram of the pumps speed limitation
Anti-surge valves
The bypass flow control valves (FCV 1305 and FCV 1303) are also used as anti-surge valves. Whenever the discharge pressure gets too close to the maximum operating pressure (H alarm), the controller automatically opens the bypass control valve to release the excess pressure back to the pump inlet. 
Pump shut-down
If the discharge pressures keep increasing in spite of the bypass valves being opened (HH alarms), the pumps will automatically shut down. Another cause of automatic shutdown is the detection of excessive liquid temperatures.
 
TEST SECTION
The test section stretches from the gas and liquid lines mixing point down to the multiphase return lines. The piping arrangement was designed to facilitate the mixing of gas and liquid for all possible combinations of flow rates. It was also optimized with respect to the flow loop utilization rate through an efficient design of the tests stations and test skids. 

 
Figure 43 Process flow diagram of the Test section
The test section is based on two parallel test lines (3” and 6”), each line comprising 3 successive test stations. The configuration of the test stations allows the connection of the MPFMs either in series or in parallel. Two pressure control valves are mounted downstream the test stations to control the inlet pressure at the test section. 

 
Figure 44 General arrangement of the test section
Main components
Mixing section
Test lines
The flow loop has a wide operating envelope and can host a great variety of DUT sizes. The multiphase lines were therefore split into two lines of different sizes: a 3” and a 6” test line. The 6” test line is suitable when running the pumps and compressor at moderate to high flow rates whereas the 3” test line is aiming at low flow rates, with a view to minimizing transit times in the multiphase pipes. As for the Vx Spectra flow meters, below is the breakdown that was decided to offer the best match with the flow meters’ operating envelopes:
	3” test line: Vx Spectra 19, 29, 40
	6” test line: Vx Spectra 65, 88
Mixing manifold
Due to the high variety of gas and liquid flow rate combinations, a flexible mixing system has been designed. It is capable of handling all possible mixtures, ranging from the injection of small liquid rates in a main gas stream to the dispersion of small gas rates in a main liquid stream. The mixing manifold is basically the combination of a Y-branch, a venturi ejector and a set of micro-gas and liquid injection lines. By configuring manually the associated shut-off valves, the following mixing configurations can be generated:
	Y-branch mixing for general multiphase flows (GVFs ranging from 10% to 90%)
	Venturi ejector mixing with liquid as a motive flow for bubbly flows (GVFs < 10%)
	Venturi ejector mixing with gas as a motive flow for wet gas flows (GVFs > 90 %)
 
Figure 45 Picture of the mixing manifold, showing the selection valves, Y mixing branches, micro liquid and gas lines and venturi ejectors. Note that two sets of Y-branches and venturi ejectors are installed, one for each of the 3” and 6” test lines. Manual selection valves are added on the upstream gas and liquid piping to divert the gas or liquid streams to the desired test line.
Flow visualization
Transparent sight flows are placed upstream the test stations on each test line to provide a direct view of the phase distributions. Checking the sight flows allows to check the homogeneity of the multiphase mixture. It is also a convenient way to assess the purity of the single phases. When running single phase liquid points, the presence of gas bubbles in the liquid stream will immediately inform the operator of a carry-under issue. Conversely, the presence of liquid droplets when running a dry gas point is a robust indicator of liquid carry-over.

              
Figure 47 Picture of 6 inch (left) and 3 inch (right) sight flows
Test stations
Three test stations are available on the 3” and 6” test lines. Up to 6 DUTs can be connected to the flow loop simultaneously to save on the rig-up times. Besides, thanks to an additional outlet provided on the test stations, up to 3 DUTs can be tested concurrently to save on the testing time.  All test stations have a similar arrangement except the last ones which open to a wider area to accommodate DUTs with a larger footprint or having a non-standard inlet/outlet piping. The 4 upstream test stations shall be dedicated for FAT tests whereas the last 2 downstream test stations shall be reserved for NPD tests.

FAT stations
The FAT stations are designed for a quick connection of the DUTs without the need of flexible hoses. This is made possible thanks to the DUT skids geometry which matches with the flow loop inlet / outlet flange elevations. Potential mismatches due to mechanical tolerances are compensated by the use of an expansion joint on the upper flange. Each test station comes with 3 isolation valves and 2 bypass valves. The return Tee of the DUT can be connected in two different positions:
	0⁰ angle for parallel tests: The DUTs can be tested successively by switching the bypass and isolation valves. This helps saving on the rig-up time.
	45⁰ angle for concurrent tests: the return flow goes back to the inlet line and can circulate through the downstream test stations. Up to 3 DUTs can be tested in a row, including at the NPD station, as long as the total pressure drop does not exceed 10 bar.
                 
Figure 48 Overview of the 3” and 6” FAT test stations, in blue and yellow color, configured in parallel (left) and in series (right) 
NPD station
Even if the last station on the test line is compatible with the standard DUT skids, it is preferred for NPD tests because of its location at the end of the test section, hence offering a reduced amount of bends and a maximum straight pipe length which is more suitable for natural flow development. Besides, a large circulation area is available around the NPD stations to connect larger equipment by means of flexible hose pipes.
 
Figure 49 Overview of the 3” and 6” NPT test stations, in pink color, showing a production Vx connected with flexible hoses.
3” to 6” bypass
A bypass valve connects the 6” line to the 3” line at the end of the test section. This bypass can be used to facilitate flushing of the flow loop at the end of a flow loop test.






Return line
After flowing through the test station(s), the multiphase mixture flows back to the separator through two separate vertical pipes of 3” and 6” diameter. Both lines are then merged into a single 6” horizontal pipe going straight to the GLS. 

 
Figure 50 Picture of 6 inch and 3 inch return lines
Choke valves
After flowing through the test station(s), the multiphase flow passes through a choke valve whose opening can be adjusted to increase the test pressure in the DUT. This may be of interest if one wants to perform a flow loop test at a constant DUT pressure for instance, by compensating the pressure drop caused by the DUT with the choke valve.

Goose neck
The 3” and 6” vertical return lines are terminated with a goose neck which acts as a backflow prevention to avoid filling up the pipes of the un-used test line during a test. The goose neck height has been determined according to the maximum contraction of the gas volume expected in the vertical pipe due to the pressure drop caused by the separator.
Test skids
The standard test skids are designed to match with the 3” or 6” test stations. They include an inlet pipe spool with a blind Tee of the same ID as the Vx Spectra meter and an outlet pipe spool terminated with an expansion bellow to absorb potential misalignments in the skid assembly. The inlet spool includes a drain port from where liquid samples can be collected to check the WLR consistency at the DUT location. 
  
Figure 51 Vx Spectra 19 (left) and Vx Spectra 29 (right) test skids
The blind tee is terminated with a blind flange that can be replaced with a conductivity probe. Another blind flange is installed on top of the outlet spool to give access to the venturi throat for in-situ and empty pipe measurements. It is also fitted with a pressure gauge and a filling port that is used during the vacuum purging and Nitrogen inerting operations.
  
Figure 52 VxSpectra 40 (left) and VxSpectra 65 (right) test skids
The skids can be lifted with a pallet truck from the rear or the side to facilitate the alignment with the test stations. Finally, 4 leveling screws are installed below the base plate to be able to finely adjust the skid position with respect to the test station outlets.

Slug Line
This is the new addition to the test line we have in year 2019. Slug line is the extension of the 3” test line which can be used in case longer pipe length is required on the 3” test line. More details to be added

Control and operation
Apart from the back pressure control loop, no specific controls are implemented on the test section.
Back pressure control loop
The function of the choke valves PCV 1401 / 1402 is basically to force an additional backpressure on the DUT and increase the average static pressure. 
 
Figure 53 Block diagram of the Backpressure control loop for the 3” and 6” test lines
(MV: PCV 1402 / 1401, PV: PIC 1404 / 1406, SP: from 3 to 40 barg)
This sub-process operates on the valves opening to stabilize the pressure at the test section to the desired value.
Safety measures
The main hazard associated with the test section is related to the configuration of the manual shut-off valves installed in the mixing manifold and along the test stations. A wrong configuration could cause the compressor and liquid pumps to run against a closed discharge and lead to a pressure build-up. Besides, the isolation valves of the test stations open to atmosphere, which can constitute a major hazard if they were to be opened before the test skid is completely rigged up and leak-tested. This section summarizes the prevention measures that are implemented to reduce these risks.
Prevention measures
Limit switches
The 4 selection valves of the mixing manifold are equipped with limit switches that return the open and closed positions to the control system in real time. A simple truth table is implemented in the controller to determine whether the mixing section is configured in single liquid phase test, single gas phase test, multiphase test, either on the 3” or 6” test line. Depending on the mixing manifold configuration, the startup of the compressor and liquid pumps will be authorized or not.

 
Figure 54 Truth table of the mixing section configuration, showing the valves status in columns and the mixing mode in rows. Only the green rows are accepted valves configurations.
Valves lockouts 
All the test stations isolation valves which are opening to atmosphere are equipped with a gear box and a hand wheel to prevent abrupt openings. Besides, a locking mechanism is available. A lock-out tag-out procedure is implemented to secure the valves in closed position when unused and keep track of the valves configurations. 

 
Figure 55 Picture of a 6inch isolation valve secured with a lockout and blind flange.
Protection measures
Blind flanges on isolation valves
Finally, the valves are systematically closed with a blind flange when not connected to any skid, which offers a second pressure barrier. The blind flange is itself fitted with a ¼” purge valve that allows the operator to bleed off any pressure that would be trapped between the valve and the blind flange before disconnecting it. 
STORAGE AND TRANSFER SYSTEM
Three atmospheric storage tanks are installed in the storage area to store the different oils and brines available for the tests. The tanks drains are connected together to the suction of the transfer pump P109 whereas the tanks inlet ports are connected to the discharge side of the pump. Besides, additional transfer lines connect the pump and tanks to the flow loop. A transfer manifold is provided close to the pump to route the fluids to the desired tank or to the main separator depending on the transfer scenario. 
 
Figure 56 Process flow diagram of the storage and transfer system
In order to pump the various liquids from atmospheric pressure to up to 30bar, a progressive cavity pump is used. The discharge side of the pump is isolated from the flow loop with an actuated valve XV1602 as well as a non-return valve to prevent any back flow. The tanks are equipped with level gauges to continuously monitor the tanks level and prevent overflows. 

 
Figure 57 General arrangement of the storage area
Main components
Storage tanks
The storage tanks are interchangeable and can be configured to store either oil or water as required for the flow loop operations or any waste liquid intended for disposal. They are fitted with all the necessary instrumentation for safe and reliable liquid transfer operations.  

 
Figure 58 Top view of the 3 storage tanks
Capacity
The nominal capacity of each tank is 15m3, which corresponds to the total volume of oil or water that can possibly be contained in the separator plus a contingency volume. The tanks have been designed as per the API 650 standard covering the design and fabrication of “welded tanks for oil storage”. 
Fill port
A filling nozzle is provided on the top of each tank and terminated by an internal diverter to avoid splashing liquid on the liquid surface which would disturb the level measurement during filling operations. A 15mm restriction orifice is inserted on the fill port to minimize the incoming liquid flow in case of abrupt opening of the flow loop transfer lines. All the fill ports are connected to the same incoming line and individual selection valves are used to route the incoming flow to the desired tank.
Drain ports
The tanks have two outlet nozzles located at different elevations on the tank but both connected to the same drain pipe. The lower nozzle is mounted on a draw-off sump positioned below the tank. The upper nozzle is connected to the shell of the tank, at about 350mm above the lower one. The tanks shall be emptied either via the upper or lower drain outlets depending on the liquid being stored. These two drain ports avoid pumping into the flow loop some residual water that may be contained in oil tanks and vice-versa for instance.
Instrumentation
The following instruments are mounted on the storage tanks to monitor all the necessary parameters for the transfer operations:
	Level gauges (LIAH 1504/1507/1510/1611): installed on the roof of the storage tanks, these ultrasonic level gauges provide a robust measurement of the liquid level in the tanks, which can be converted to a volume estimation based on the tank geometry
	Temperature indicators (TI 1503/1505/1509/1610): local temperature gauges mounted on thermowells to provide a local indication the fluids temperature
	Capacitance switches (CISH 1506/1508/1511/1612): installed between the upper and lower drain ports, the capacitance switches are used to detect the oil-water transition during draining or filling operations. This allows the operator to identify the type of product stored at the bottom of the tank and open the upper or lower drain port accordingly. 
Transfer system
The transfer system consists of a transfer pump (P109) and a transfer manifold from where all the fluid transfer operations can be configured prior starting running the pump or opening the transfer lines.
Transfer pump (P109)
The transfer pump is connected to the storage tanks at the suction side and to the flow loop at the discharge side. It can be used for the following operations:
	Fill the separator with oil and water
	Inject a certain amount of brine into the water line
	Fill the storage tanks from a tanker truck
	Dispose the fluids from the storage tanks to a tanker truck.
	Transfer liquid from one storage tank to the other
 
Figure 59 Picture of the transfer pump (P109) and discharge isolation valve (XV 1602)
Since the transfer pump is supposed to inject liquids from atmosphere up to a 30bar discharge pressure, a progressive cavity pump was selected, allowing a maximum flow rate of 5m3/h whatever the discharge pressure. The transfer pump is not driven by a VFD like the oil or water pumps, meaning that it can only operate at a constant speed and generate a constant output flow rate. 
Transfer manifold
All the selection and isolation valves required for the transfer operations are grouped in an accessible area close to the transfer pump. In total, 14 inlet/outlets are available on the transfer manifold: 
	6 inlets connected to the storage tanks drain ports (lower and upper drains)
	1 inlet connected to the tanker truck drain port
	1 inlet connected to the water export line
	1 inlet connected to the oil export line
	3 inlets connected to the storage tanks fill port 
	1 outlet connected to the separator fill port; 
	1 outlet connected to the tanker truck fill port
 
Figure 60 Picture of a the transfer manifold showing the water (left) and oil (right) export lines as well as the separator filling line (middle)
The inlet lines highlighted in bold font are connected to the process on one end, hence subject to potentially high pressures. Throttle valves are installed on the export lines to reduce the incoming flow rate and avoid inrushes of liquid into the storage tanks. A check valve is inserted on the separator filling line to avoid any backflow from the separator to the storage tanks.
Specific connections are provided to connect the pump or the tanks to a tanker truck, either to drain or fill the storage tanks. Quick-fit couplings (A-type Cam lock couplings) are used together with compatible flexible hoses. 
Isolation valve (XV 1602)
When the transfer manifold is configured to transfer liquid into the separator from one of the storage tanks, a specific operating sequence is implemented to reduce the risk of pressurized process fluids flowing back through the pump into the storage tank. An actuated valve, XV 1602, is installed on the transfer pump discharge line for this purpose.  See paragraph 9.2.1 for more details about the transfer sequence.
Control and operation
A specific PLC (PLC1) is covering the fluid transfer operations. It is required that the operator be locally present during the whole process because some steps in the transfer operations require manual interventions and local monitoring. Three different pumps can be operated to transfer liquids in and out of the storage tanks: while the transfer pump (P109) is essentially used to fill the separator, the oil and water pumps (P103 and P105) can be run to assist the draining of the separator when the flow loop is no longer pressurized.

 
Figure 61 Overview of the operational sequences of the fluid transfer operations
Pumps control
The pumps start and stop actions follow a precise sequence of operations. As for the transfer pump (P109), starting the transfer sequence will first automatically open the discharge isolation valve (XV 1602) and subsequently start the pump after the valve is confirmed to be fully opened. Opening automatically the isolation valve at the right time minimizes the risk of liquid flowing back through the pump before it starts building up pressure effectively. 
When draining oil or water from the separator, the oil and water centrifugal pumps (P105 and P103) are started in a similar way as the normal circulation process except that the oil export valve (XV 1110) is opened on the pump suction instead of the main oil outlet (XV1106). This allows the pump to directly pump the oil from the oil phase in the OWS. 
Tanks interlocks 
The valves on the transfer manifold are not equipped with limit switches. Instead, the transfer HMI requests the operator to select from which tank and towards each tank liquid should be transferred. Once entered in the HMI, the operator can launch the transfer sequence. Specific interlocks are then activated in the controller to automatically stop the pump if a wrong routing is detected, for instance if a level variation is noticed in a tank which was not selected. This avoids mixing up liquids by mistake.
Safety measures
The major hazards associated with the storage and transfer system are the spillage of chemicals, fire hazards inherent with the storage of combustible liquids and the pressure hazards during the transfer operations. Other operational hazards are the mixing of fluids in the storage tanks due to an incorrect configuration of the transfer manifold.
Prevention measures
Check valves 
To prevent the introduction of unwanted liquid in the storage tanks during a wrong valve manipulation or wrong configuration of the mixing manifold, several check valves are provided on the tanks outlets and transfer manifold, forcing some of the lines unidirectional. In addition, the tanks interlocks, as explained in 9.2.2 contribute to the prevention of incorrect fluid routing.
Inlet strainer 
A Y-type strainer (STR 1606) with a 40 um wire mesh is inserted on the transfer pump inlet for protection against solid particles or salt crystals that may accumulate in the storage tanks and damage the pump.
Protection measures
Level switches 
Overfilling one of the storage tanks could cause an uncontrolled spillage of oil or water in the storage area. As a result, a level switch (LSH 1501/1502/1618) is installed on each tank as an overfill protection. The level switch immersion length is adjusted so that the switching point lies about 200mm below the tank maximum level to allow sufficient time for the control system to stop the transferring pump (either P109, P103 or P105) before liquid reaches the top of the tank. 
Secondary containment
The external storage area is surrounded with a 500mm high bund wall, offering a theoretical containment capacity of 39.3 m3. According to local regulations, the required containment capacity should be in excess of 10% of the largest tank volume within the storage area, which is the OWS with its 23.4 m3 capacity. As a result, the minimum required containment capacity shall be 25.7 m3.

 
Figure 62 Overview of the storage area secondary containment 
Breather valves
Each tank is equipped with a Pressure Vacuum Safety Valve (PVSV 1510, 1511 and 1603) for pressure and vacuum protection during routine filling and emptying operations but also to minimize evaporation losses. The set pressures of the PVSV are +20mar and -20mbar. The total out-breathing flow rate (6.6 Nm3/h) is calculated based on the pump maximum incoming flow and the thermal out-breathing flow rate. The total in-breathing flow rate (7.3 Nm3/h) is the sum of the pump outgoing flow rate and the thermal inbreathing flow rate. Venting requirements calculations are compliant with API 2000.

 
Figure 63 Picture of a breather valve
Emergency venting (positive pressure)
An emergency venting situation would occur if the storage tanks were exposed to fire or any other expected source of external heat. Each tank is equipped with a graphite rupture disc (PSE 1506, 1507 and 1605) for protection against excessive pressure buildup. The burst pressure of the rupture disc is set to +50mbar. The relief rate requirement (5409 Nm3/h) is calculated as per the API 2000 standard, deriving the vapor rate from the tank geometry and an estimation of the absorbed heat.
Emergency venting (negative pressure)
Protection against vacuum is needed in case of failure of the breather valve when draining the tanks. Another set of rupture discs (PSE 1515, 1516 and 1609) is installed on the storage tanks for vacuum protection. Their burst pressure is set to -50mbar and their required relief rate (56 m3/h) is calculated assuming gravity flow through the tank drains when fully opened to atmosphere.

 
Figure 64 Picture of the emergency venting rupture discs
Transfer pump PSV 
A pressure safety valve (PSV 1604) is mounted on a bypass line across the transfer pump. It is meant to protect the pump but also the whole flow loop against overpressure in case the discharge pressure of the pump exceeds the MAWP of the pump and separator. The PSV discharges back to the pump inlet so that no liquid is lost. The PSV is set to 30barg, in accordance with the separator MAWP and the required relief rate (5.4 m3/h) is sized considering the maximum pump capacity.

 
Figure 65 Picture of the transfer pump PSV

 
COOLING SYSTEM
Since the fluids are flowing in a closed loop system, the heat generated by the pumps and compressor needs to be dissipated if one wants to maintain a constant temperature in the process. The process heat is extracted via plate heat exchangers installed in the gas and liquid sections and connected to a chilled water distribution system. The chilled water is produced by an air-cooled refrigeration system comprising up to 3 chillers (G101/A/B/C) and a buffer tank (D106). 

 
Figure 66 Block diagram of the cooling system
The cooling system is located in the open space area, close to the Nitrogen pallets, to benefit from open-air ventilation. Three chillers are provided presently to have efficient cooling capacity. The chillers are powered and controlled with their own control panel located next to them. All the chilled water pipework is made of PVC insulated pipes that run along the main process pipework up to the various heat exchangers.

 
Figure 67 General arrangement of the cooling system
Main components
Heat exchangers
In total 4 heat exchangers are connected to the chilled water pipework. The chillers are adjusted to deliver a 10°C chilled water for an incoming water temperature of 15°C. This 5°C temperature span is used to dissipate the heat generated by each pump. Welded disc plate heat exchangers are used on the liquid circulation pumps and gas compressor whereas a standard gasketed plate heat exchanger is provided on the vacuum pump system.

 
Figure 68 Schematic of a disc plate heat exchanger
Water pump heat exchanger
The maximum working conditions on the water pump heat exchanger (E101) are summarized below:
	Process water flow:			150 m3/h
	Heat load:				69.5 kW
	Chilled water flow rate: 			11.9 m3/h
	Max pressure drop (process side) : 	721 mbar
The heat load corresponds to the maximum power absorbed by the water pump when running at its maximum speed and against a 10 bar head.
Oil pump heat exchanger
The maximum working conditions on the oil pump heat exchanger (E102) are summarized below:
	Process water flow:			150 m3/h
	Heat load:				69.34 kW
	Chilled water flow rate: 			11.9 m3/h
	Max pressure drop (process side) : 	100 mbar (light oil), 1060 mbar (300cSt oil)
The heat load corresponds to the maximum power absorbed by the oil pump when running at its maximum speed and against a 10 bar head. Note that the oil pump heat exchanger is oversized compared to the water pump heat exchanger, so that it can also handle higher viscosity oils without inducing excessive pressure drops. 


Gas primary cooling stage heat exchanger 
The maximum working conditions on the gas cooling heat exchanger (E103) are summarized below:
	Process water flow:			24 m3/h
	Heat load:				328.5. kW
	Chilled water flow rate: 			56.3 m3/h
	Max pressure drop (process side) : 	1420 mbar
The heat load corresponds to the 1.5 times the maximum power absorbed by the compressor when running at its maximum speed and against a 10 bar differential pressure. The chilled water flow rate is made significantly larger than the process flow on this heat exchanger to transfer as much heat as possible out of the recirculation liquid in a single run. 
Besides, contrary to the liquid pumps heat exchangers, the chilled water flow rate is not controllable since it is not meant for fine temperature regulation. A proper temperature control loop shall be implemented on the secondary cooling stage planned for Phase 2.
Refrigeration system
The HVAC system consists of three 165kW chillers and is scalable to up to four units to cater for the increased heat load due to the additional phase 2 compressor. Each module consists of independent refrigeration systems and control circuit, which provides a full redundancy between the modules and reduces the risk of cooling power breakdown.

 
Figure 69 Picture of the refrigeration system with, from left to right, the chillers control panel, Chiller G101/A/B and C and the expansion tank. The chilled water pipes, valves and instrumentation are located at the back along the wall
Chillers
Each modular chiller contains its own inverter driven scroll compressors, evaporator, air cooled heat exchanger and circulation pump as well as a dedicated controller. The chiller compressors automatically regulate the outlet temperature of the chilled water to 10°C. The three modules are connected to a master control system located in the control panel, itself connected to the flow loop control system, which allows the operator to turn on and off the different modules, change the temperature set point and monitor potential faults and alarms.
Chilled water expansion tank
A 5m3 buffer tank is provided to absorb temperature transients in the process and thereby minimize peak demands on the chillers. The buffer tank is made of fiberglass and it is insulated from ambient by a Polyfoam insulation material to retard energy loss. 
Chilled water pipework and instrumentation 
The chilled water is conveyed to the 4 heat exchangers through a network of insulated SCH 80 PVC pipes. Each exchanger section can be isolated from the rest of the pipework. In addition, a local visual flow indicator (Rotameter) is provided, as well as thermometer gauges on the inlet and outlet of the heat exchanger. Globe valves are also installed on E103 and E104 to provide a manual control of the chilled water flow as these heat exchangers are not equipped with automated control valves.
Safety measures
There are no major hazards related to the cooling system apart from excessive discharge pressures generated by the circulation pumps that would damage the chilled water pipes.
Protection measures
PSVs
Three pressure relief valves are mounted on the main chilled water pipe to protect the downstream equipment from overpressures. Their discharge side is connected to the expansion tank.
Strainers
Strainers are mounted on the suction of each pump module to avoid damaging the pump with solid particles. 
 
ACQUISITION & CONTROL SYSTEM
The main functions of the acquisition and control system are to collect the transmitters’ readings, manage the pumps and compressor operational sequences and handle all the critical alarms without the need for the operator’s intervention. Besides, for the sake of an enhanced testing capacity, the flow loop has been automated extensively so that most of the routine activities can be managed automatically by the control system. This includes all the PID control loops and other sub-processes presented in the previous chapters.
Architecture
The acquisition and control system is designed in a network architecture organized around 4 PLCs, each PLC covering a specific area of the process plant. Installing the PLCs close to their associated equipment and instruments allows to simplify significantly the cabling works and improve the overall response time as each PLC manages a reduced set of transmitters and actuators.  The PLCs are distributed as follows:
	PLC1: Storage and transfer area (PID 1101, 1105, 1106 and 1107)
	PLC2: Gas section (PID 1102)
	PLC3: Liquid and test sections (PID 1103 and 1104)
	PLC4: Electrical room (VFDs and pumps relays)
 
Figure 70 Overview of the flow loop distributed control system
The PLCs communicate with each other and the supervisory computer over an Ethernet network using the Modbus TCP protocol. An Ethernet switch is provided in the PLC4 enclosure, located in the electrical room, to connect the PLCs and VFDs together with the HMI station and MPFM station. Another Ethernet switch is provided in the FAT box, mounted next to the test stations to allow the connection of up to 3 DUTs to the flow loop network. The FAT box also hosts a WIFI router which provides a wireless access to the flow loop network from every corner over the facility. 
PLCs
Each PLC enclosure contains a 750-8202 controller from WAGO equipped with a combination of the following I/O cards to interface with the various transmitters connected to the PLC:
	Analog 4-20 mA / HART input module (750-482)
	Analog 4-20 mA output module (750-554)
	Analog RTD Input module (750-461)
	Digital I/O module (750-1502)
	RS485 serial interface module (750-652)
 	 
 	
 	
Figure 71 On the left, from top to bottom, the electrical enclosures of PLC1, PLC2 and PLC3. On the right, the electrical enclosure of PLC4

All the basic instruments and actuators such as the pressure, temperature transmitters and flow control valves are monitored using analog 4-20mA current loops. Additional feedbacks and diagnostics are retrieved digitally via the HART protocol whenever available. The more complex sensors and actuators, such as the Coriolis flow meters, VFDs or guided wave radars directly communicate using a serial RS485 connection. The complete list of tags monitored by the control system is available in the Alarm Trip Settings document [6], which also specifies the alarms configurations.
FAT box
The FAT box allows a quick connection of the DUTs to the acquisition and control system to retrieve all the necessary output data for the flow loop test. The enclosure contains a 24VDC power supply, an Ethernet switch and a set of terminal blocks to power and connect up to 4 devices simultaneously. 3 of them are terminated with ROTA cables compatible with the Vx Spectra’s DAFC. 1 is wired to a standard Ethernet socket mounted on the side of the electrical enclosure in case a non-standard DUT needs to be connected to the flow loop.

    
Figure 72 FAT box outside (left) and inside (right) views
The FAT box is also equipped with a dual band WIFI router offering a wireless coverage over the whole facility so that the operator can use the mobile tablet at any given location.
Control and operation
The main role of the control system is to manage the low-level operations such as the pumps start and stop procedures. The control system also handles all the time-critical processes, which are essentially the PID control loops defined in the previous chapters. Finally, all the alarms which are considered the most critical in the process are hard-coded in the PLCs. In the event of a critical alarm, the PLCs will automatically trigger the shutdown of the related pumps or compressor.
Operational sequences
The operational sequences of the pumps and compressor are described as functional block diagrams in the SWTC Flow loop – Operational Sequences document [5]. Each pump (independently the water pump, oil pump or gas compressor) is represented by a state machine in the program and can be either in Standby, Start-up, Running, Stop or Shutdown state. When in a given state, the PLC executes a specific sequence of actions or waits for a user command before switching to the next state. Figure 73 shows a typical flow chart as implemented in the PLC.
 
Figure 73 Standby sequence of the gas compressor.
Sub-processes
The processes presented in sections 6.3 and 7.4 respectively for the gas compressor and liquid pumps control are implemented in the PLC with a sampling time of 100ms. They can be enabled and configured from the user interface. In addition to the traditional proportional gain, integral and derivative time constants, the user can set an offset and a minimum / maximum value for the manipulated variable.  A noise suppression filter is also available as well as a basic anti-windup scheme to prevent integration wind-up when the actuators are saturated.
Safety measures
Critical alarms are hard-coded in the control system to ensure a fast shut-down in case of a hazardous event. As a last protection measure, emergency stop buttons are provided all around the facility.
Critical alarms
If a critical alarm occurs, such as those described in paragraphs 6.4.1.2 and 7.5.1.3, the corresponding pump will enter the Shutdown sequence. Unlike the normal Stop procedure, which stops the pumps and reconfigures the associated valves in an orderly fashion, the Shutdown sequence is designed to abort the operation as quickly as possible. The valves remain in their latest configuration and the pump VFD stops the motor as fast as possible, while still remaining energized (contrary to the Emergency stop shutdown which cuts off the drives input power).

 
Figure 74 Operator console with the Fault indicator and Acknowledge button.
The user must then acknowledge the shutdown alarm form the local control panel before putting the pumps back in Standby mode. The Standby procedure simply consists of reconfiguring the valves to their default position. The alarms thresholds (LL, LL, H and HH) of the critical alarms can be configured by the user from the Settings panel (0). However, they cannot be disabled.
Emergency stops
In total 8 emergency stop buttons (e-stops) are provided in the facility at various locations as shown on Figure 75. The e-stops are used to shut off the pumps (P103, P105, P109 and P113) and compressor (C101A) in an emergency situation in which they cannot be shut down in the usual manner. For fail-safe operation, the e-stop switches are normally closed to ensure that a broken wire will neither accidentally activate the emergency shutdown nor prevent it from being activated.  

 
Figure 75 Location of the flow loop E-stops
The e-stop switches are connected in series on a 230VAC loop which also connects to the pumps drives ESD system. After the emergency stop command has been given, all the drives trip their main contactor/breaker which cuts off the input power of the drives and stops the motors. Once pressed, the e-stop button latches in the open position and must be reset manually. The procedure also requests the operator to reset each VFD individually and acknowledge the Alarm on the local control console before being able to restart the process. 
USER INTERFACE
This section describes the user interface that was designed to allow a flexible yet robust control of the flow loop either from the control room or remotely by using the wireless tablet. 
Software architecture
Operating modes
The flow loop can be operated under 4 different modes:
	Main circulation mode
	Fluid transfer mode
	Vacuum purging / N2 inerting mode
	Remote circulation mode
When the flow loop is operated in the Main circulation mode, all the control features are enabled. This mode allows the user to circulate oil, water and gas simultaneously at any speed, set the flow control valves opening and configure the on-off valves. The pumps and compressor operational sequences are activated in the PLC. Likewise, the automatic control loops defined in 6.3, 7.4 and 8.2 can be turned on and off individually. The Main circulation mode HMI runs on the flow loop supervisory station.

 
Figure 76 Layout of the control room showing the supervisory station and the mobile tablet (red)
When the flow loop is operated in Fluid transfer mode, Vacuum purging / N2 inerting mode or Remote circulation mode, the corresponding operational sequences are activated in the PLC. Three specific HMI screens running on the wireless tablet have been designed for these 3 remote operating modes.  All the modes are exclusive meaning that only the commands coming from the current mode HMI will effectively be taken into account by the PLC.
Dataflow
The PLCs communicate with the supervisory station and the mobile tablet using the Modbus TCP protocol, respectively through an Ethernet cable or wireless. However, the dataflow differs between the two supports.  
Desktop HMI
The desktop HMI is programmed using the LabVIEW platform and the LabVIEW DSC (Datalogging and supervisory Control) module. An OPC server interfaces with the PLC and the HMI program. All the tags available on the OPC server are converted into shared variables used in the various HMI panels.

        
Figure 77  Dataflow chart of the Main circulation mode
Mobile HMI
The mobile HMIs are using a proprietary solution from RPM (Remedial Performance) called SCADA+ which runs on iOS. Since it supports a direct Modbus connection with the PLC, no OPC server is required. 

 
Figure 78 Dataflow chart of the Remote circulation modes
Historian
LabVIEW Citadel is used for data logging. It interfaces directly with the shared variables and logs all the shared variables continuously as soon as the computer is running. The logging resolution and dead band can be configured individually for each shared variable to minimize the database size. Besides, datasets can easily be created to organize runs of data in the database and facilitate flow period exports.
Alarms management
Critical and non-critical alarms are implemented in LabVIEW for display only. This includes the HH, LL, H, L and ROC alarms. An alarm trip causes the corresponding visual indicator to blink until the alarm is resolved. Besides, an alarm table lists all the current and past alarms. A process alarm has 4 states as illustrated in Figure 79: 
	Normal: 	the process is in normal condition
	UnackAlarm: 	the alarm is active but not acknowledged
	AckAlarm: 	the alarm is active and acknowledged
	RTN Unack: 	the process has returned to normal but the alarm was not acknowledged
This alarm lifecycle, as defined by the ANSI/ISA–18.2–2009 standard [2], ensures an effective alarm management and makes sure that the operator acknowledges all the alarm conditions and takes the necessary corrective actions. 
 
Figure 79 Alarms lifecycle as implemented in LabVIEW. Source: Management of Alarm Systems
for the Process Industries [2]
 
REFERENCES
Consult the latest valid version of each document referenced.
Normative References
Title	Document Number
	Handbook of multiphase flow metering	ISBN 82-91341-89-3
	Management of Alarm Systems for the Process Industries	ANSI/ISA–18.2–2009
Informative References
Title	Document Number
	SWTC Flow Loop – Performance Assessment 	DMS# 102925840
	SWTC Flow Loop – Reference Measurement & calculations	DMS# 102923814
	SWTC Flow Loop – Operational Sequences – rev AA	DMS# 102684109
	SWTC Flow Loop – Alarm Trip Settings – rev 2	DMS# 102684076  



 
SEPARATOR DESIGN
General arrangement
 

GLS Internals
1. Tangential Inlet diverter	 
2. Mist eliminator	 
3. Vortex breaker	 
OWS internals
4. Slotted Tee distributor	 
5. Coalescing mesh pad	 
6. Coalescing plates	 
7. Oil outlet diffuser	 
8. Water outlet baffle plate	 
 
COMPRESSOR CHARACTERISTICS
Pump curve
 
Required Water Flow
 
Required Oil Flow
 
 
LIQUID PUMPS CHARACTERISTICS
Oil pump curves
 
Figure 80 Oil pump curve for the Light oil (0.795 SG and 2.2 cSt viscosity)
 
Figure 81 Oil pump curve for the viscous oil (0.875 SG and 300 cSt viscosity)
 
Water pump curves
 
Figure 82 P103 pump curve for Fresh water (0.998 SG and 0.65 cP viscosity)
 
Table 12 P103 pump curve for Brine (1.28 SG and 1.2 cP viscosity)
 
HMI views
Desktop HMIs
Home view
 
Liquid section
 
 
Gas section
 
Test section
 
 
Alarms management
 
Trends 
 
 
Settings
 

 
Tablet HMIs
Fluid transfer
 
Vacuum Purging / N2 inerting
 
